README.md, before:

# AutomationShield Library and Examples

## About AutomationShield

Arduino, MATLAB and Simulink IDE for the AutomationShield expansion boards for control engineering education. You can read more about the AutomationShield project in our [Wiki page](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/wiki).

## Installing the library

### Arduino IDE

Download the library from the `master` branch of the [Git repository](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/archive/master.zip). Open the Arduino IDE, click on the *Sketch* menu, and find the *Include Library* option. This opens another sub-menu from which you shold select *Add .ZIP Library...* that will open the file browser. Locate the renamed library .zip file and click *Open*.

### MATLAB

Launch the `installMatlabAndSimulink.m` file from the root directory or the `installForMATLAB.m` from the `matlab` directory from the MATLAB command line. This adds and saves the correct paths to your MATLAB installation. The MATLAB API for ArduinoShield requires the installation of the  [MATLAB Support Package for Arduino Hardware](https://www.mathworks.com/hardware-support/arduino-matlab.html).


### Simulink
Launch the `installMatlabAndSimulink.m` file from the root directory or the `installForSimulink.m` from the `simulink` directory from the MATLAB command line. This adds and saves the correct paths to your MATLAB installation. The MATLAB API for ArduinoShield requires the installation of the  [Simulink Support Package for Arduino Hardware](https://www.mathworks.com/hardware-support/arduino-simulink.html). The algorithmic blocks for the boards should appear in your library.


## Library usage

This is a minimal summary for library usage. The harware library for a particular board is initialized by the board name followed by `begin` for example to initialize the OptoShield call:
```
OptoShield.begin();
```
The onboard sensor is read by calling the `sensorRead()` method, in case of the aformentioned OptoShield this would be 
```
y=OptoShield.sensorRead();
```
returning the reading to the variable `y`. Finally, the actuator is set by the `actuatorWrite()` method, that is 
```
OptoShield.actuatorWrite(u);
```
sets the actuator to `u`. Inputs and outputs are floating point numbers.

Please consult our [Wiki page](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/wiki) for more details and board specific instructions.

## Examples

### Arduino IDE

The library contains examples in the `\examples\` directory that will also show up in the Examples collection of the Arduino IDE. You can access this by clicking *File*, *Examples* and look for the *AutomationShield* library. Examples showcase the use of the AutomationShield library in Arduino sketches.

### MATLAB IDE

Worked examples for the AutomationShield MATLAB IDE are located in the `\matlab\examples\` directory.

### Simulink IDE

Worked examples for the AutomationShield Simulink IDE are located in the `\simulink\examples\` directory.

Commit message:

Information on submodules
Added section to inform the user that the repo has submodules.

README.md, after:

# AutomationShield Library and Examples

## About AutomationShield

Arduino, MATLAB and Simulink IDE for the AutomationShield expansion boards for control engineering education. You can read more about the AutomationShield project in our [Wiki page](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/wiki).

## Downloading and Installing the Library

If you are not familiar with Git, please download the latest release of the library from the [Releases](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/releases) section, as the production code download does not include certain dependencies. Search for the `AutomationShield_vX.Y.tar` file in the Assets, where `vX.Y` is the major and minor version number of the release. Do not use the Source Code files in the Assets, since these lack the dependent code as well.

For those who wish to use Git, this repository contains submodules, therefore you should use `git clone --recursive git://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield.git` to get these as well. In case you have already cloned the repository, the submodule directories in `src/lib/` may be empty. In this case, you have to initialize it by calling `submodule update --init --recursive`.

### Arduino IDE

Open the Arduino IDE, click on the *Sketch* menu, and find the *Include Library* option. This opens another sub-menu from which you shold select *Add .ZIP Library...* that will open the file browser. Locate the renamed library .zip file and click *Open*.

### MATLAB

Launch the `installMatlabAndSimulink.m` file from the root directory or the `installForMATLAB.m` from the `matlab` directory from the MATLAB command line. This adds and saves the correct paths to your MATLAB installation. The MATLAB API for ArduinoShield requires the installation of the  [MATLAB Support Package for Arduino Hardware](https://www.mathworks.com/hardware-support/arduino-matlab.html).


### Simulink
Launch the `installMatlabAndSimulink.m` file from the root directory or the `installForSimulink.m` from the `simulink` directory from the MATLAB command line. This adds and saves the correct paths to your MATLAB installation. The MATLAB API for ArduinoShield requires the installation of the  [Simulink Support Package for Arduino Hardware](https://www.mathworks.com/hardware-support/arduino-simulink.html). The algorithmic blocks for the boards should appear in your library.


## Library usage

This is a minimal summary for library usage. The harware library for a particular board is initialized by the board name followed by `begin` for example to initialize the OptoShield call:
```
OptoShield.begin();
```
The onboard sensor is read by calling the `sensorRead()` method, in case of the aformentioned OptoShield this would be 
```
y=OptoShield.sensorRead();
```
returning the reading to the variable `y`. Finally, the actuator is set by the `actuatorWrite()` method, that is 
```
OptoShield.actuatorWrite(u);
```
sets the actuator to `u`. Inputs and outputs are floating point numbers.

Please consult our [Wiki page](https://github.com/gergelytakacs/AutomationShield/wiki) for more details and board specific instructions.

## Examples

### Arduino IDE

The library contains examples in the `\examples\` directory that will also show up in the Examples collection of the Arduino IDE. You can access this by clicking *File*, *Examples* and look for the *AutomationShield* library. Examples showcase the use of the AutomationShield library in Arduino sketches.

### MATLAB IDE

Worked examples for the AutomationShield MATLAB IDE are located in the `\matlab\examples\` directory.

### Simulink IDE

Worked examples for the AutomationShield Simulink IDE are located in the `\simulink\examples\` directory.
